Left on its own the board will orient to align with the path of greatest slope, that is will try to align with gravity

Skidded turn:
Primarily ride board with a consistent footing (either fully toe-side or fully heel-side).  Shift weight to turn front of the board towards desired direction, lean opposite velocity.

To maintain control swerve in a S-shaped path

Can be performed while snowplowing to control speed.

Light lean in to the mountain, not much centripetal acceleration

Carved turn:


Left thumbstick is used to control body lean, basically camera relative lean that rolls the board


Board rotation:

Yaw: right thumbstick, used for large-scale turning
Pitch: left thumbstick, used for braking, modifying turns, or preparing for jumps
Roll: left thumbstick, used to maintain balance on the mountain, braking, modifying turns, or preparing for jumps

Left thumbstick: Character forward and right vector relative rotation
Right thumbstick: Character-up-vector-relative rotation 

Input is analogous to flying a ship in 3D, one 2D input for two degrees of freedom, one 1D input for the third

Goofy-footed: swap right and left thumbsticks.  ;)


Mental model:
One hand controls direction. One hand controls stability.  Both need to be in sync to board well.

Fantastic and eclectic environments, characters, and theming mixed with dynami, challenging, and rewarding gameplay

Beginners should be able to fat-finger and make it down a run, but it won't be pretty.  Consider building boards with "stabilizers" that make the riding experience easier.  Think training wheels.

Similar to Katamari thumbstick motion?

I want to feel skilled when I avoid an obstacle while maintaining my momentum.

There must be a range of success cases, avoid binary outcomes.  The goal of every interaction for the player is to maintain as much momentum as possible so that they complete
the run as quickly as possible.


Acceptable binary questions: 
did you complete the run?

Unacceptable binary outcome:
Two players both avoided an obstacle and neither lost any speed


Important to avoid the "Forza feeling" of a simulation game.  I don't want to have to practice, practice, practice in order to have any fun.
However, if I practice, practice, practice I need to feel like a total badass.


Goal:
Make it through the run as quickly as possible.

High level strategy:
Build up speed whenever possible and avoid losing speed whenever possible.  

Mid-level strategies:
Avoid segments of the run that look to slow you down, lean to have the maximum speed exiting a turn, do not crash